stream-processing: getting-started: fluent-bit-sql: general cleanup (#1627)
fluent/fluent-bit-docs: stream-processing/getting-started/fluent-bit-sql.md

# Fluent Bit and SQL

Stream processing in Fluent Bit uses SQL to perform record queries.

> For additional information, see the [stream processing README file](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/tree/master/src/stream_processor).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [stream processing README file](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-bit/tree/master/src/stream_processor).
```

## Statements

Use the following SQL statements in Fluent Bit.

> ### SELECT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `SELECT`
```

  [GROUP BY groupby]
```

Groups keys from records that originate from a specified stream, or from records that match a specific tag pattern.

{% hint style="info" %}
A `SELECT` statement not associated with stream creation will send the results to the standard output interface, which can be helpful for debugging purposes.
{% endhint %}

> You can filter the results of this query by applying a condition through a `WHERE` statement. For information about the `WINDOW` and `GROUP BY` statements, see [Aggregation functions](#aggregation-functions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can filter the results of this query by applying a condition by using a `WHERE` statement. For information about the `WINDOW` and `GROUP BY` statements, see [Aggregation functions](#aggregation-functions).
```

#### Examples

Selects all keys from records that originate from a stream called `apache`:

```sql
SELECT * FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Selects the `code` key from records with tags whose name begins with `apache`:

```sql
SELECT code AS http_status FROM TAG:'apache.*';
```

> ### CREATE STREAM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `CREATE STREAM`
```

```sql
CREATE STREAM stream_name
  [WITH (property_name=value, [...])]
  AS select_statement
```

Creates a new stream of data using the results from a `SELECT` statement. If the `Tag` property in the `WITH` statement is set, this new stream can optionally be re-ingested into the Fluent Bit pipeline.

#### Examples

Creates a new stream called `hello_` from a stream called `apache`:

```sql
CREATE STREAM hello AS SELECT * FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Creates a new stream called `hello` for all records whose original tag name begins with `apache`:

```sql
CREATE STREAM hello AS SELECT * FROM TAG:'apache.*';
```

> ## Aggregation Functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Aggregation functions
```

You can use aggregation functions in the `results_statement` on keys, which lets you perform data calculation on groups of records. These groups are determined by the `WINDOW` key. If `WINDOW` is unspecified, aggregation functions are applied to the current buffer of records received, which might have a non-deterministic number of elements. You can also apply aggregation functions to records in a window of a specific time interval.

Fluent Bit uses a tumbling window, which is non-overlapping. For example, a window size of `5` performs aggregation computations on records during a five-second interval, then starts new calculations for the next interval.

Additionally, you can use the `GROUP BY` statement to group results by one or more keys with matching values.

> ### AVG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `AVG`
```

```sql
SELECT AVG(size) FROM STREAM:apache WHERE method = 'POST' ;
```

Calculates the average size of POST requests.

> ### COUNT

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `COUNT`
```

```sql
SELECT host, COUNT(*) FROM STREAM:apache WINDOW TUMBLING (X SECOND) GROUP BY host;
```

> Counts the number of records in 5 second window, grouped by host IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Counts the number of records in a five-second window, grouped by host IP addresses.
```

> ### MIN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `MIN`
```

```sql
SELECT MIN(key) FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Returns the minimum value of a key in a set of records.

> ### MAX

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `MAX`
```

```sql
SELECT MAX(key) FROM STREAM:apache;
```
Returns the maximum value of a key in a set of records.

> ### SUM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `SUM`
```

```sql
SELECT SUM(key) FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Calculates the sum of all values of a key in a set of records.

## Time Functions

Use time functions to add a new key with time data into a record.

> ### NOW

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `NOW`
```

```sql
SELECT NOW() FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Adds the current system time to a record using the format `%Y-%m-%d %H:%M:%S`. Output example: `2019-03-09 21:36:05`.

> ### UNIX\_TIMESTAMP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `UNIX_TIMESTAMP`
```

```sql
SELECT UNIX_TIMESTAMP() FROM STREAM:apache;
```

Adds the current Unix time to a record. Output example: `1552196165`.

## Record Functions

Use record functions to append new keys to a record using values from the record's context.

> ### RECORD\_TAG

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `RECORD_TAG`
```

```sql
SELECT RECORD_TAG() FROM STREAM:apache;
```

> Append Tag string associated to the record as a new key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Append tag string associated to the record as a new key.
```

> ### RECORD\_TIME

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `RECORD_TIME`
```

```sql
SELECT RECORD_TIME() FROM STREAM:apache;
```

> ## The WHERE condition

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `WHERE` condition
```

Similar to conventional SQL statements, Fluent Bit supports the `WHERE` condition. You can use this condition in both keys and subkeys. For example:

```sql
SELECT AVG(size) FROM STREAM:apache WHERE method = 'POST' AND status = 200;
```

You can confirm whether a key exists in a record by using the record-specific function `@record.contains`:

```sql
SELECT MAX(key) FROM STREAM:apache WHERE @record.contains(key);
```

> And to check whether the value of a key is `NULL`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To determine if the value of a key is `NULL`:
```
